title: 领域期刊
date: 2020-05-13 11:42:46
tags: 
categories: Specialty
---

# 期刊总览

| 级别 | IF(2016, 3年平均) | 期刊名 |
| :------: | :------: | :------ |
| T1 | (4.075, 3.622)| Composites Part A: Applied Science and Manufacturing |
| T1 | (3.995, 3.449) | International Journal of Machine tools and manufacture |
| T1 | (2.905, 2.57)  | Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering |
| T1 | (2.569, 2.17)  | Engineering Geology |
| T1 | (1.894, 1.578) | Ocean engineering |
| T2 | (2.718, 2.307) | Journal of Natural Gas Science and Engineering |
| T2 | (2.342, 1.826) | International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics |
| T2 | (2.268, 1.988) | International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences |
| T2 | (2.155, 2.136) | International Journal of Refractory Metals and Hard Materials |
| T2 | (2.192, 1.808) | Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology |
| T2 | (1.873, 1.648) | Journal of Petroleum Science and Engineering |
| T2 | (2.903, 2.366) | Tribology International | |
| T3 | (2.531, 2.256) | Wear |
| T3 | (1.891, 1.796) | Tribology Letters |
| T3 | (2.435, 2.329) | metals* (开源期刊近今年才开始投的人多，了解一下近5年的情况就够) |
| T3 | (1.679, 1.63)  | applied science* (开源期刊近今年才开始投的人多，了解一下近5年的情况就够) |


## [Composites Part A: Applied Science and Manufacturing](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/composites-part-a-applied-science-and-manufacturing)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 6.9; Impact Factor: 6.282]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Composites Part A: Applied Science and Manufacturing publishes original research papers, review articles, case studies, short communications and letters from a wide variety of sources dealing with all aspects of the science and technology of composite materials, including fibrous and particulate reinforcements in polymeric, metallic and ceramic matrices, and 'natural' composites such as wood and biological materials. The range of applicable topics includes the properties, design and manufacture of reinforcing fibers and particles, novel architectures and concepts, multifunctional composites, advances in fabrication and processing of composite materials and structures, manufacturing science, process modelling, experimental mechanics, microstructural characterization of composites and their constituent phases, interfaces in composites, new approaches to prediction and measurement of mechanical, physical and chemical behaviour, and performance of composites in service. Articles are also welcomed on economic and commercial aspects of the applications of composites, design with composites and case studies. All articles are subject to rigorous peer review to ensure they make an important and novel contribution, and a high standard is set for both content and presentation. The Editors aim to conduct the review procedure with the minimum of delay so that prompt publication ensues.
</details>

内容涉及包括高分子、金属和陶瓷基体中的纤维和颗粒增强材料，以及木材和生物材料等 "天然 "复合材料。
适用主题包括增强纤维和颗粒的性能、设计和制造、新型结构和概念、多功能复合材料、复合材料和结构的制造和加工的进展、制造科学、工艺建模、实验力学、复合材料及其组成相的微观结构特征、复合材料的界面、预测和测量机械、物理和化学行为的新方法以及复合材料的服务性能。


## [International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/international-journal-of-machine-tools-and-manufacture)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 7.76; Impact Factor: 6.039]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
The International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture is devoted to advances in scientific understanding of essential mechanics of processes and machines applied to the manufacture of engineering components, mainly in metals, but also in composites, ceramics and other structural/functional materials. To this end coverage is given to a range of topics that includes:

* Essential mechanics of processes involving material removal, accretion and deformation, in solid, semi-solid or particulate form
* Significant scientific development of existing or new processes and machines
* In-depth characterisation of workpiece materials (structure/surfaces) by advanced techniques (e.g. SEM, EDS, TEM, EBSD, AES, Raman spectroscopy) to reveal new phenomenological aspects that govern manufacturing processes
* Tool design, utilisation and in-depth studies of failure mechanisms
* Novel concepts of machine tools/fixtures/tool holders supported by modelling and demonstrations that are relevant to manufacturing processes within the journal's remit
* Novel scientific contributions dealing with interactions between the machine tool, control system, software design and processes.
* Studies of specific mechanisms governing niche processes (e.g. ultra-high precision, nano /atomic level manufacturing with either mechanical or non-mechanical "tools")
* Novel approaches, supported by adequate in-depth scientific analysis, addressing emerging /breakthrough processes (e.g. bio-inspired manufacturing) and/or applications (e.g. ultra-high precision optics)

The above list is not exhaustive and papers on other topics associated with process science/technology or manufacturing hardware are welcome. Significant and useful advance of the current state of knowledge is an essential factor and it is important that papers are presented in a manner that will be appreciated by both academics and practising engineers. It is unlikely that papers dealing with theory or modelling alone will be acceptable, unless a significant proven advance in scientific/technological knowledge is demonstrated. Likewise, papers in which the use of methodology predominates over technological advance would probably be rejected. Normally, multipart papers are not acceptable.
</details>

主要是金属、复合材料、陶瓷和其他结构/功能材料，主题包括: 
* 涉及固体、半固体或颗粒形式的材料去除、增殖和变形的过程的基本力学
* 对现有或新的工艺和机器进行重大的科学开发
* 通过先进的技术对工件材料（结构/表面）进行深入的表征，以揭示控制制造过程的新现象学方面的新特征
（如SEM、EDS、TEM、EBSD、AES、拉曼光谱等）
* 工具的设计、使用和故障机制的深入研究
* 在本刊的职权范围内，通过建模和演示，支持与制造工艺相关的机床/夹具/刀架的新概念
* 处理机床、控制系统、软件设计和工艺之间相互作用的新型科学贡献
* 研究特定的特殊机理（例如：超高精度、纳米/原子级制造，使用机械或非机械 "工具"）
* 充分深入的科学分析支持下的新方法，处理新出现的/突破性工艺(如生物启发制造)和/或应用(如超高精度光学)


## [Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering](https://www.springer.com/journal/603)

<details>
<summary><mark>[Impact factor: 4.1 (2018); Five year impact factor: 4.679 (2018)]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering covers the experimental and theoretical aspects of rock mechanics, including laboratory and field testing, methods of computation and field observation of structural behavior. The journal maintains the strong link between engineering geology and rock engineering, providing a bridge between fundamental developments and practical application. Coverage includes case histories on design and construction of structures in rock such as underground openings, large dam foundations and rock slopes.
Fields of interest include rock mechanics in all its varied aspects including laboratory testing, field investigations, computational methods and design principles. The journal also reports on applications in tunneling, rock slopes, large dam foundations, mining, engineering and engineering geology.
</details>

涵盖了岩石力学的实验和理论方面的内容，包括实验室和现场测试、计算方法和结构行为的现场观察等。
报道内容包括岩石中的结构设计和施工案例，如地下开口、大型坝基和岩石边坡等。
关注的领域包括岩石力学的各个方面，包括实验室测试、现场调查、计算方法和设计原理。
该杂志还报道了在隧道开挖、岩石边坡、大型坝基、采矿、工程和工程地质等方面的应用。


## [Engineering Geology](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/engineering-geology/)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 4.7; Impact Factor: 3.909]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Engineering Geology is an international interdisciplinary journal bridging the fields of the earth sciences and engineering, particularly geological and geotechnical engineering. The focus of the journal is on geological or engineering studies that are of interest to engineering geologists, whether their initial training is in geology or civil/mining engineering. The studies published in this journal must show relevance to engineering, environmental concerns, and safety.
Sample topics of interest include but are not limited to applied geomorphology and structural geology, applied geophysics and geochemistry, environmental geology and hydrogeology, land use planning, natural hazards, remote sensing techniques, soil and rock mechanics and applied geotechnical engineering.
Paper types considered are original research articles, case histories, and comprehensive reviews. Case studies, in particular, should emphasize why the paper is of interest to the international readership of this journal, and/or what new or novel research or theoretical methods are being presented.
The journal is intended for academic scientists, industry and applied researchers, and policy and decision makers.
</details>

期刊的重点是对工程地质学家感兴趣的地质或工程研究，在本刊发表的研究必须与工程、环境问题和安全相关。
主题包括但不限于应用地貌学和结构地质学、应用地球物理学和地球化学、环境地质学和水文地质学、土地利用规划、自然灾害、遥感技术、土壤和岩石力学以及应用岩土工程等。


## [Ocean Engineering](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/ocean-engineering)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 3.6; Impact Factor: 2.73]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Ocean Engineering provides a medium for the publication of original research and development work in the field of ocean engineering. Ocean Engineering seeks papers in the following topics.
Ocean Engineering including:
fixed and floating offshore platforms;
pipelines and risers;
cables and mooring;
buoy technology;
foundation engineering;
ocean mining;
marine and offshore renewable energy;
aquaculture engineering; and subsea engineering.
Naval Architecture including:
ship and special marine vehicle design;
intact and damaged stability;
technology for energy efficiency and green shipping;
ship production technology;
decommissioning and recycling.
Polar and Arctic Engineering including:
ice mechanics;
ice-structure interaction;
polar operations;
polar design;
environmental protection.
Automatic Control of Marine Systems including:
automatic control;
automation and autonomy for marine vehicles and systems
Underwater Technology including:
AUV/ROV design;
AUV/ROV hydrodynamics;
maneuvering and control; and underwater-specific communicating and sensing systems for AUV/ROVs.
In these fields, papers on the following technical topics are welcome.
Hydrodynamics: CFD; vortex induced vibrations; fluid-structure interaction; hydroelasticity; linear and non-linear wave mechanics; buoyancy and stability; ship resistance and propulsion; seakeeping and controls; ship maneuvering, radiated noise.
Structural mechanics: materials; limit state prediction; fatigue; fracture; structural health monitoring; collision and crash worthiness, degradation.
Stochastic calculations: stochastic processes; safety and reliability; risk and limit state design.
Experimental approaches: instrumentation; full-scale measurements; model tests.
Marine equipment: risers; pipelines; ballast water treatment; air emissions treatment; underwater noise mitigation; and associated components or equipment.
Ocean environmental predictions- only for ocean structures and vessel operation and design: extreme event predictions; extreme statistics; wave groups; short-term environment predictions; impact of climate change. Note that broader environmental and climate model, sensing, and data sets should be submitted to climate and oceanographic journals.
Automatic Control of Marine Systems: Papers submitted in this subject area should have genuine value in naval architecture and marine engineering and should include the validation of results preferably, by full-scale measurements or model-scale tests or, when this is not possible, by high fidelity simulations. Methods used in papers should be validated in conditions that represent realistic marine environments.
</details>

- 海洋工程
	- 固定和浮动海上平台
	- 管道和立管
	- 电缆和系泊
	- 浮标技术
	- 地基工程
	- 海洋采矿
	- 海洋和海上可再生能源
	- 水产养殖工程
	- 海底工程
- 海军建筑学
	- 舰艇和特种海洋交通工具设计
	- 完整和受损的稳定性
	- 能源效率和绿色航运技术
	- 舰艇生产技术
	- 退役和回收利用
- 极地和北极工程
	- 冰层力学
	- 冰层结构的相互作用
	- 极地作业
	- 极地设计
	- 环境保护
- 海洋系统的自动控制
	- 自动控制
	- 海上车辆和系统的自动化和自主性
- 水下技术
	- AUV/ROV设计
	- AUV/ROV流体力学
	- 操纵和控制
	- 用于AUV/ROV的水下专用通信和传感系统


## [Journal of Natural Gas Science and Engineering](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/journal-of-natural-gas-science-and-engineering)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 4.54; Impact Factor: 3.859]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
The objective of the Journal of Natural Gas Science & Engineering is to bridge the gap between the engineering and the science of natural gas by publishing explicitly written articles intelligible to scientists and engineers working in any field of natural gas science and engineering from the reservoir to the market.
An attempt is made in all issues to balance the subject matter and to appeal to a broad readership. The Journal of Natural Gas Science & Engineering covers the fields of natural gas exploration, production, processing and transmission in its broadest possible sense. Topics include: origin and accumulation of natural gas; natural gas geochemistry; gas-reservoir engineering; well logging, testing and evaluation; mathematical modelling; enhanced gas recovery; thermodynamics and phase behaviour, gas-reservoir modelling and simulation; natural gas production engineering; primary and enhanced production from unconventional gas resources, subsurface issues related to coalbed methane, tight gas, shale gas, and hydrate production, formation evaluation; exploration methods, multiphase flow and flow assurance issues, novel processing (e.g., subsea) techniques, raw gas transmission methods, gas processing/LNG technologies, sales gas transmission and storage. The Journal of Natural Gas Science & Engineering will also focus on economical, environmental, management and safety issues related to natural gas production, processing and transportation.
Research articles, case histories, field process reports, short communications, book reviews, symposia proceedings and review articles are accepted. Generally, review articles on some topic of special current interest will be published.
</details>

- 主题包括：
	- 天然气的成因与聚集
	- 天然气地球化学
	- 气藏工程
	- 测井、测试与评价
	- 数学建模
	- 提高采收率
	- 热力学与相态行为
	- 气藏建模与模拟
	- 天然气生产工程
	- 非常规天然气资源的初级和强化生产
	- 与煤层气、致密气、页岩气和水合物生产、地层评价有关的地下问题
	- 勘探方法
	- 多相流和流动保证问题
	- 新的加工（如水下）技术
	- 原料气输送方法
	- 天然气处理/液化天然气技术
	- 销售天然气输送和储存


## [International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10969853)

<details>
<summary><mark>[Impact factor:2.481]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
The journal welcomes manuscripts that substantially contribute to the understanding of the complex mechanical behaviour of geomaterials (soils, rocks, concrete, ice, snow, and powders), through innovative experimental techniques, and/or through the development of novel numerical or hybrid experimental/numerical modelling concepts in geomechanics. Topics of interest include instabilities and localization, interface and surface phenomena, fracture and failure, multi-physics and other time-dependent phenomena, micromechanics and multi-scale methods, and inverse analysis and stochastic methods. Papers related to energy and environmental issues are particularly welcome. The illustration of the proposed methods and techniques to engineering problems is encouraged. However, manuscripts dealing with applications of existing methods, or proposing incremental improvements to existing methods – in particular marginal extensions of existing analytical solutions or numerical methods – will not be considered for review. The journal publishes full-length papers, which normally will be less than 20 journal pages in length, and short communications, which can be at most 6 journal pages. Two-part papers are discouraged.
</details>

- 通过创新的实验技术和/或通过在地质力学中发展新的数值或混合实验/数值模拟概念
  对理解地质材料（土壤、岩石、混凝土、冰、雪和粉末）的复杂力学行为作出实质性贡献的手稿
- 感兴趣的主题包括
	- 不稳定性和局部化
	- 界面和表面现象
	- 断裂和失效
	- 多物理和其他时间相关现象
	- 微观力学和多尺度方法
	- 反分析和随机方法
	- 与能源和环境问题有关的


## [International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/international-journal-of-rock-mechanics-and-mining-sciences)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 5.27; Impact Factor: 3.78]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
This journal is concerned with original research, new developments, site measurements and case studies in rock mechanics and rock engineering. It provides an international forum for the publication of high quality papers on the subject of rock mechanics and the application of rock mechanics principles and techniques to mining and civil engineering projects built on or in rock masses. These projects include slopes, open-pit mines, quarries, shafts, tunnels, caverns, underground mines, metro systems, dams and hydro-electric stations, geothermal energy, petroleum engineering, and radioactive waste disposal. Papers are welcomed on all relevant topics and especially on theoretical developments, analytical methods, numerical methods, rock testing, site investigation, and case studies.
</details>

关注岩石力学和岩石工程的原始研究、新发展、现场测量和案例研究，项目包括：
斜坡、露天矿、采石场、竖井、隧道、洞穴、地下矿山、地铁系统、大坝和水电站、地热、石油工程、放射性废物处理
欢迎有关所有相关主题的论文，特别是理论发展、分析方法、数值方法、岩石试验、现场调查和案例研究


## [International Journal of Refractory Metals and Hard Materials](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/international-journal-of-refractory-metals-and-hard-materials)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 3.11; Impact Factor: 2.794]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
The International Journal of Refractory Metals and Hard Materials (IJRMHM) publishes original research articles concerned with all aspects of refractory metals and hard materials. Refractory metals are defined as metals with melting points higher than 1800 °C. These are tungsten, molybdenum, chromium, tantalum, niobium, hafnium, and rhenium, as well as many compounds and alloys based thereupon. Hard materials that are included in the scope of this journal are defined as materials with hardness values higher than 1000 kg/mm2, primarily intended for applications as manufacturing tools or wear resistant components in mechanical systems. Thus they encompass carbides, nitrides and borides of metals, and related compounds. A special focus of this journal is put on the family of hardmetals, which is also known as cemented tungsten carbide, and cermets which are based on titanium carbide and carbonitrides with or without a metal binder. Ceramics and superhard materials including diamond and cubic boron nitride may also be accepted provided the subject material is presented as hard materials as defined above.
The journal seeks contributions that investigate novel alloy design concepts; studies of the relationships between chemical composition, microstructure, and properties; novel methods of characterization and testing, novel methods of synthesis and processing, especially those that result in improved or novel microstructures, leading in turn to improved properties and novel applications. Articles focus on methods and processes that reduce material and energy consumption, hence the cost of these materials will also be considered.
The process technologies may include but are not limited to powder synthesis and production technologies (chemical methods, physical methods such as mechanical ball milling); powder compaction and shaping technologies including die compaction, powder injection molding, and 3D printing; and sintering and consolidation processes such as vacuum sintering, hot isostatic pressing, field assisted sintering, and other advanced hot consolidation techniques. However, manuscripts that focus on processes without a clear explanation on how the process can lead to improved microstructure and properties, or reduction of energy consumption and costs are likely discouraged.
This journal also publishes articles dealing with the deposition process and the microstructure and the measurement of selected properties of coatings, provided the coating consists of a material from the groups defined above, and is applied on the surface of a refractory metal or hard material. For eligibility of such articles the material science aspect of the coatings and if applicable their interrelationship with the properties of the coatings is of prime importance. Papers lacking this focus are usually referred to other journals dedicated to surface coating or machining.
IJRMHM aims to bridge the gap between pure research and the more practical aspects of production and properties. In that IJMHM will continue to provide a medium linking together material scientists, engineers, designers and manufacturers working in this field.
</details>

特别关注硬质合金（也称为硬质合金）和金属陶瓷（基于含或不含金属粘合剂的钛合金和碳氮化物）。
陶瓷和超硬材料，包括金刚石和立方氮化硼，也可以接受，前提是标的材料呈现为上述定义的硬质材料。
致力于研究新的合金设计概念；研究化学成分、微观结构和性能之间的关系；新的表征和测试方法，新的合成和加工方法，特别是那些导致改进或新的微观结构的方法，进而导致性能的改善和新的应用。文章着重于减少材料和能源消耗的方法和过程，因此也将考虑这些材料的成本。
工艺技术可包括但不限于粉末合成和生产技术（化学方法、机械球磨等物理方法）；粉末压制和成形技术，包括模压、粉末注射成型和三维打印；以及真空烧结、热等静压、场辅助烧结等先进的热固结工艺。（须对工艺如何改善微观结构和性能，或降低能耗和成本作出明确解释）
如果涂层由上述组分的材料组成，并应用于难熔金属或硬质材料的表面，本杂志还出版了有关沉积过程、微观结构和涂层选定性能测量的文章。


## [Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/tunnelling-and-underground-space-technology)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 5; Impact Factor: 3.942]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology incorporating Trenchless Technology Research is an international journal which publishes authoritative articles encompassing original research and case studies on the development of tunnelling technology, the use of underground space and trenchless technology. The journal is committed to publishing papers on the interdisciplinary aspects of planning, creating, and regulating underground space, and covers a very wide scope of underground space and underground construction, including:
Geo-investigation, geomechanics analysis, design and modelling, construction and monitoring, and maintenance and rehabilitation of tunnels and large underground and earth-sheltered structures.
Planning, development, and operation of underground space and underground space environment such as architecture, safety and comfort, and human-space interaction.
Installation and rehabilitation of underground pipelines, ducts, and cables using pipe jacking, microtunnelling, and other forms of trenchless technologies.
All papers on the topics within the journal scope are welcomed. Papers can be in the form of original research papers or case study papers on underground space utilization and underground construction technology.
</details>

发表的权威文章包括隧道开挖技术的发展、地下空间的利用和无坑技术的原创研究和案例研究。
致力于发表有关地下空间规划、创造、调控等多学科交叉的论文，涵盖了地下空间和地下工程建设等非常广泛的领域：
- 地质勘察、地质力学分析、设计与建模、施工与监测、隧道和大型地下及土方结构的维护与修复等
- 地下空间和地下空间环境的规划、开发和运行，如建筑、安全舒适性、人与空间的互动等
- 利用顶管、微隧等形式的无坑技术对地下管线、管道、电缆的安装与修复


## [Journal of Petroleum Science and Engineering](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/journal-of-petroleum-science-and-engineering/)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 3.66; Impact Factor: 2.886]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
The objective of the Journal of Petroleum Science and Engineering is to bridge the gap between the engineering, the geology and the science of petroleum and natural gas by publishing explicitly written articles intelligible to scientists and engineers working in any field of petroleum engineering, natural gas engineering and petroleum (natural gas) geology. An attempt is made in all issues to balance the subject matter and to appeal to a broad readership.
The Journal of Petroleum Science and Engineering covers the fields of petroleum (and natural gas) exploration, production and flow in its broadest possible sense. Topics include: origin and accumulation of petroleum and natural gas; petroleum geochemistry; reservoir engineering; reservoir simulation; rock mechanics; petrophysics; pore-level phenomena; well logging, testing and evaluation; mathematical modelling; enhanced oil and gas recovery; petroleum geology; compaction/diagenesis; petroleum economics; drilling and drilling fluids; thermodynamics and phase behavior; fluid mechanics; multi-phase flow in porous media; production engineering; formation evaluation; exploration methods; CO2 Sequestration in geological formations/sub-surface; management and development of unconventional resources such as heavy oil and bitumen, tight oil and liquid rich shales.
Papers will be published with the minimum of publication delay. Research articles, case histories, field process reports, short communications, book reviews, symposia proceedings and review articles are accepted. Generally, review articles on some topic of special current interest will be published.
</details>

涵盖了石油（和天然气）勘探、生产和流动等领域的最广泛意义上的内容。主题包括：
- 石油和天然气的起源和积累
- 石油和天然气的起源和堆积
- 石油地球化学
- 储层工程
- 储层模拟
- 岩石力学
- 岩石物理学
- 孔隙现象
- 测井、测试和评价
- 数学建模
- 增强油气采收
- 石油地质学
- 压实/成因
- 石油经济学
- 钻井和钻井液
- 热力学和相行为
- 流体力学
- 多孔介质中的多相流
- 生产工程
- 地层评估
- 勘探方法
- 地质构造/地表下的二氧化碳封存
- 非常规资源的管理和开发 (如重油和沥青、致密油和富液页岩等)


## [Tribology International](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/tribology-international/)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 4.1; Impact Factor: 3.517]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Tribology is the science of rubbing surfaces and contributes to every facet of our everyday life, from live cell friction to engine lubrication and seismology. As such tribology is truly multidisciplinary and this extraordinary breadth of scientific interest is reflected in the scope of Tribology International.
Tribology International seeks to publish original research papers of the highest scientific quality to provide an archival resource for scientists from all backgrounds. Written contributions are invited reporting experimental and modelling studies both in established areas of tribology and emerging fields. Scientific topics include the physics or chemistry of tribo-surfaces, bio-tribology, surface engineering and materials, contact mechanics, nano-tribology, lubricants and hydrodynamic lubrication.
</details>

主题包括三基体表面的物理或化学、生物摩擦学、表面工程和材料、接触力学、纳米摩擦学、润滑剂和流体动力润滑等


## [Wear](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/wear)

<details>
<summary><mark>[CiteScore: 3.35; Impact Factor: 2.95]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Wear journal is dedicated to the advancement of basic and applied knowledge concerning the nature of wear of materials. Broadly, topics of interest range from development of fundamental understanding of the mechanisms of wear to innovative solutions to practical engineering problems. Authors of experimental studies are expected to comment on the repeatability of the data, and whenever possible, conduct multiple measurements under similar testing conditions. Further, Wear embraces the highest standards of professional ethics, and the detection of matching content, either in written or graphical form, from other publications by the current authors or by others, may result in rejection.
Submissions are invited on such subjects as:
(a) Wear modelling and validation. This includes modelling of fundamental mechanisms as well as the modelling of tribosystems. Approaches may employ contact mechanics, frictional considerations and lubrication concepts in the development of the model, and will always include physical validation of the model.
(b) The development and use of new wear testing methods and standards. This includes the rationale behind their development (including a critique of existing test methodologies where appropriate).
(c) New wear diagnostic tools. The need for these tools and examples of their use in either basic research or engineering should be illustrated.
(d) The development of wear-resistant materials, coatings, or surface treatments. Such papers should include, for example, benchmarking against materials currently employed in targeted engineering applications, or presenting a basic hypothesis underlying the work that can be validated as an advance over the current state-of-the-art. The criteria used to select the test methods employed (and the conditions under which those tests were conducted) must be robustly justified with regard to the targeted engineering applications. The proposed mechanisms of wear must be discussed in the context of data and observations that support those conclusions.
(e) Relationships between the composition, structure, properties, and processing of materials and their wear behavior. Such submissions should include the basic rationale for the work, its foundation in prior knowledge, and how the current approach is implemented to explore these relationships. The criteria used to select the tests or analytical methods employed shall be explained with respect to the purpose of the research, be it fundamental or applied.
(f) The role of lubricants or other interfacial species in the wear of materials. Such submissions will focus on the mechanisms of wear in the presence of well-characterized interfacial environments.
The Abstracts of all submissions, whether a full paper or a shorter communication, should summarize the purpose and approach to the given problem, indicate the materials under investigation, and present the primary conclusions in a brief and concise manner. Overt commercialism or product promotion is unacceptable. Submissions to Wear will be peer-reviewed to assess their archival quality, clarity of communication, and the novelty of their contributions to the science and technology of wear.
</details>

- 磨损建模和验证: 包括基本机制的建模以及三体系统的建模
- 制定和使用新的磨损测试方法和标准: 包括制定这些方法和标准背后的理由，包括对现有测试方法的批评
- 新的磨损诊断工具: 应说明对这些工具的需求，并举例说明其在基础研究或工程中的使用情况
- 耐磨材料、涂层或表面处理方法的开发: 有针对性的材料比较，或提出一个基本假设，作为对当前最先进技术的进步进行验证
- 材料的组成、结构、性能和加工工艺与磨损行为之间的关系: 应包括工作的基本原理、在已有知识中的基础、目前的方法如何实现探索这些关系
- 润滑剂或其他界面种类在材料磨损中的作用: 侧重于在有明确的界面环境下的磨损机理


## [Tribology Letters](https://www.springer.com/journal/11249)

<details>
<summary><mark>[Impact factor: 2.235 (2018); Five year impact factor: 2.404 (2018)]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Tribology Letters is devoted to the development of the science of tribology and its applications, particularly focusing on publishing high-quality papers at the forefront of tribological science and that address the fundamentals of friction, lubrication, wear, or adhesion.  The journal facilitates communication and exchange of seminal ideas among thousands of practitioners who are engaged worldwide in the pursuit of tribology-based science and technology.
</details>

涉及摩擦、润滑、磨损或粘附等基本原理


## [Metals (open access)](https://www.mdpi.com/journal/metals)

<details>
<summary><mark>[Current Impact Factor: 2.259; 5-year Impact Factor: 2.371]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Metals (ISSN 2075-4701) is an open access journal of related scientific research and technology development. It publishes reviews, regular research papers (articles) and short communications. Our aim is to encourage scientists to publish their experimental and theoretical results in as much detail as possible. Therefore, there is no restriction on the length of the papers. The full experimental details must be provided so that the results can be reproduced.
Metals provides a forum for publishing papers which advance the in-depth understanding of the relationship between the structure, the properties or the functions of all kinds of metals.
Topics Covered
- metallurgy
- alloys
- base metals (include iron, nickel, lead and zinc)
- ferrous and non-ferrous metals
- noble metals (include tantalum, gold, platinum, silver and rhodium)
- precious metals
- transition metals
- metalloids
- semi-metals
- metallicity
- rare metals
- synthetic metals
- applications
- trade
Several topical special issues will be published.
</details>

涵盖的主题
- 冶金学
- 合金
- 基本金属（包括铁、镍、铅、锌）
- 有色金属和有色金属
- 贵金属
- 贵金属
- 过渡金属
- 金属胶体
- 半金属
- 金属性
- 稀有金属
- 合成金属
- 应用
- 交易


## [Applied Sciences (open access)](https://www.mdpi.com/journal/applsci)

<details>
<summary><mark>[Current Impact Factor: 2.217; 5-year Impact Factor: 2.287]</mark> - Aims&Scope[en] (点击展开)</summary>
Aims
Applied Sciences (ISSN 2076-3417) provides an advanced forum on all aspects of applied natural sciences. It publishes reviews, research papers and communications. Our aim is to encourage scientists to publish their experimental and theoretical results in as much detail as possible. There is no restriction on the length of the papers. The full experimental details must be provided so that the results can be reproduced. Electronic files and software regarding the full details of the calculation or experimental procedure, if unable to be published in a normal way, can be deposited as supplementary electronic material.
Scope
The journal covers all aspects of applied biology, applied chemistry, applied physics, and applied engineering. It has 22 Sections:
- Nanotechnology and Applied Nanoscience
- Optics and Lasers
- Acoustics and Vibrations
- Chemistry
- Materials
- Energy
- Mechanical Engineering
- Computing and Artificial Intelligence
- Applied Biosciences and Bioengineering
- Environmental and Sustainable Science and Technology
- Quantum Science and Technology
- Applied Physics
- Earth Sciences and Geography
- Civil Engineering
- Applied Industrial Technologies
- Electrical, Electronics and Communications Engineering
- Food Science and Technology
- Applied Dentistry
- Membrane Science and Technology 
- Robotics and Automation 
- Marine Engineering 
- Aerospace Science and Engineering
</details>

共有22个栏目:
- 纳米技术与应用纳米科学
- 光学和激光器
- 声学和振动
- 化学系
- 材料
- 能源
- 机械工程
- 计算和人工智能
- 应用生物科学和生物工程
- 环境和可持续科学与技术
- 量子科学与技术
- 应用物理学
- 地球科学和地理学
- 土建工程
- 应用工业技术
- 电气、电子和通信工程
- 食品科学与技术
- 应用牙科
- 膜科学与技术 
- 机器人技术和自动化 
- 海洋工程 
- 航天科学与工程
